During the period of Greater Iran, there was a national hero named Bizhan, one of
the greatest Iranian heroes in the history who is also the son of Giv and grandson
of Rustam, a world-famous warrior. One day, Bizhan won another victory when he came
to battle with Human. Human was strong, proceed without hesitation. But Bizhan was even
stronger!
Soon after, they all wounded, nevertheless they tried to persist, stood straight,
fought back hard.
Sadly, they fell on the ground one after another. As Bizhan
approached Human, “His left
hand gripped his foeman’s neck, the right His foeman’s
thigh, he bent that mighty Camel,
raised him aloft, and flung him to the ground”
He ended Human’s life with a dagger, the two trees at the far back seems
to be blowing by wind, indicating the whole scene happened so fast and in intense
atmosphere. The direction of tree blowing is parallel to that of Bizhan’s head movement, depicts
the intensity of this combat.
Human’s misery was over. Bizhan had pale face with very determinant facial
expression, in contrast
to Human (the person on the ground) had red face with painful
facial expression, trying
to stop Bizhan from attacking him by dagger. Human was
wounded terribly and bleeding.
The guy in the lower left corner with orange shirt,
wearing a hat seemed to
be shocked by their fight, put his finger in his mouth,meanwhile starring at the
fighting scene. He also has pale face, same as Bizhan,indicating that they might belong
to the same group.
While the guy on the upper right corner, with red-ish face, similar to that
of Human’s showing that they may belong to the same group, he also showed a
worry face, maybe worrying about Human’s fate. He took revenge on his enemy Human for
Siyawush and his seventy brothers by cutting off Human’s head. Then, his horse was being
brought to him, he bounded Human’s head to the saddle-straps, let the trunk decompose
in sand.
He’s going to show-off his war trophy. As Bizhan put on Human’s armour,
two interpreters ran to Bizhan to worship him as Brahmans. They were stunned not only
by the scene that just happened before their eyes, but also by Bizhan’s fearless.
Bizhan scanned around the battlefield, couldn’t help to save the Turkman host. Human’s
interpreter was
trembling, fearful of Bizhan, the standard of the Iranian chief was down.
The interpreter returned to his country and told Piran, king of Turan, “The glory of
the empire is bedimmed.” The Turanian army cried after heard the death of Human.
Meanwhile a cameleer told Gudarz (Bizhan’s grandfather) of the Iranian host that
Bizhan was back
in triumph, carried the sable flag in reversed. Bizhan’s father was
eager to see his
son after learned the news of his heroic son, he embraced and
congratulated the hero
for his braveness. His grandfather Gudarz bestowed him with crown, royal robe and jewelries.